hello everyone in this lecture we will
be seeing another example of converting
and NFA to a DFA alright so let's get
started ok so here we have a question
find the equivalent DFA for the NFA
given by M equal to ABC a B Dell AC
where
Dell is given by this so what is the
meaning of this
this is actually the formal definition
or the formal way of representing an NFA
so in the previous lectures I have
already taught you how an NFA is
formally defined so I told you that NFA
is defined using five tuples one two
three four five where what does this
tuples mean this tuples means that this
first one ABC are the states we have
three states ABC and then the second
tuple is the inputs which are a and B
and then we have a transition function
Dell and then this a shows that this is
the starting state or the initial State
and this C is the final state or the
accepting state and here Dell the
transition function Dell is defined by
this table over here we have three
states ABC a on getting input a goes to
both a and B a on getting input B it
goes to C be on getting a it goes to a
and B on getting input B it goes to B
and C on getting input a it goes nowhere
it means it has no move it goes to Phi
and C on getting input B goes to States
a and B and here a is initial state
let's so I have given this arrow and C
is the final state it is why I've given
this circle around this so before we
proceed let us just draw the state
diagram for this NFA okay so here I have
drawn the state transition diagram for
this NFA we have three states ABC a on
getting small a goes to a itself and
also it goes to B and a on getting input
small B goes to state C and state B on
getting input small a it goes to state a
and on getting small bit stays in B
itself and C on getting input a does not
go anywhere and C on getting input small
v it goes to state a as well as state B
now we will convert this to a equivalent
DFA
and we're using the subset construction
method that we have discussed in the
previous lecture so I'll use this table
to convert this transition table to the
equivalent transition table for DFA so
what would be the elements in my table
I'll have my inputs a and B and what
will be the States I have I'll start
with the starting state or initial state
which is state a and then let's see a on
getting input a where does it go
a on getting input a it goes to two
states a and B but in DFA a state on
getting a particular input can go only
to one state so we cannot send it to two
states so I will combine a and B and
make a new state which I will call a B a
B is a single state all right and then a
on getting input small B it goes to
state C goes to state C and then what
will be the next set that I have to
discuss here let we have to first check
what are the states that is reachable
the only states that are reachable are a
B and C so I can start with either a B
or C let me start with a B I'll discuss
state a B and how do we do this in order
to know where does a B go and getting
input a and B we have to look at this
table and look at both states a and B
because we are doing a B here so look at
States a and B and perform the Union
operations of a and B to get the result
here so a B on getting input a where
does it go for that look at this a and B
perform the Union operation of a and B
on getting input small a so you know the
operation of a and B will be a B and a
so a is common the next thing is B so it
will be a B so this will be a B and when
getting input B where will it go perform
the union of this you know B and C so it
will be BC capital D C okay now let's
see what are the states that are
reachable a B a B and VC so a B is
already discussed the next one is
C let me write for BC B C so how do we
do for BC look at this table and perform
the Union operation of B and C so on
getting input a union of B and C is a
and Phi that means just a write just a
and then on in getting input B what
happens perform the Union operation of B
and C on getting input small B then
oppression of B and a B will be a B
itself a B ok now what are the states
reachable from here a and a B a is
already discussed a B sauce already
discussed and what is remaining that we
have not discussed we have not discussed
state C so let us arrive for state C so
in state C when state C gets input a it
goes nowhere but in a DFA we cannot
leave a state like that we cannot we
have to mention where a state will go
when it gets a particular input we have
to send it somewhere
so in this NFA it goes to file so Phi in
DFA is equivalent to a dead State
so I will make a new state here which I
will call D where D will be my dead
State ok and C on getting input a B
where does it go it goes to both a and B
so I cannot send it to both a and B I
have to combine a B and make a new state
coil a B so we have already made their
new state a B here so I'll send it to a
B okay and now is it complete it is not
complete why because I have mentioned
about a new state called D here which is
the dead state and I have to you also a
write what happens to the dead State in
order to make the DFA complete so let me
mention for D state D D on getting input
a and D where does it go we know that
dead State in a dead state whenever any
input comes it has to stay in a dead
State and it just gets trapped in the
dead State so whatever comes to the dead
State has to stay in the dead State so
in dead state D whether we get input a
or B it stays in the
dead state itself d now my table is
complete but here we have mentioned what
is the initial state but we did not
mention what is the final state so what
would be my final States among these
states so we see that in the NFA C was
the final state so in DFA what will be
the final state in NFS in C was the
final state I have to make all the
states that contains see in this DFA as
final States so I see that here in BC
there is C and here there is C so both
of these states should be my final
States so I'll put a circle around them
one on both of them indicating that both
these are the final States okay now we
have made the transition table now let
us try to row draw the transition
diagram for this DFA so let me start
with my starting state a is my starting
state and a on getting input small a it
goes to state a B you have mentioned
state a be here
alright a will go to this a B on getting
input small a and a on getting input
small B it goes to state C so I'll make
another state here for state C and we
have to
that state C is a final state so I have
to put two circles around state C okay a
on in on getting what input does it go
to state C on getting input small B and
on getting input small V it goes to
state C okay now coming to state a B a B
on getting input small a it stays in a B
itself stays in a bit self on getting
input small egg and a B on getting input
small B it goes to state B C so I have
to make a new state B C here we see and
we have to note that BC is also a final
state so we have to put two circles
around it so it B a B goes to BC on
getting in there B goes to BC on getting
input small be getting input small V in
close to VC okay now we have finished
for a B now coming to BC BC on getting
input small a it goes to a BC on getting
input small air should go to a Tucson
getting input small a and VC on getting
input small B goes to a B BC on getting
input small B it has to go to a B that
is on getting input small B okay and we
have completed BC now coming to state C
C on getting input a goes to D which is
added state so make a dead state over
here we shall call D so C on you getting
input small a goes to D and C on getting
input small B goes to a B
on getting input small B in goes to a B
and dead state that is d on getting
input a and B it stays in D itself so
whatever it gets whether it is a or b it
stays in B itself so here we have
completed the DFA for the NFA that was
given using our subset construction
method we have constructed this DFA so I
hope this was clear to you and now if it
was clear to you I would like to give
you one assignment one task and the
assignment will be try to find out what
does this NFA and its you balint DFA
accept so here in this lecture we have
discussed about this NFA and we have
designed its equivalent DFA now your
task will be to find out what this NFA
and this DFA accepts we did not mention
what kind of strings or what is this d
FN + FF doing what is its task what is
it actually accepting what kind of
strings is it actually accepting so try
to find out what this example that we
have discussed accepts and try to leave
your answer in the comment section below
so thank you for watching and see you in
the next one
[Applause]
Oh
[Music]